for years diesel drivers in North
America have flocked to Volkswagen
showrooms to get their fix
but now the Jetta TDI has a new
competitor in the compact segment and it
comes from Chevrolet that's right high
torque and highway fuel economy are both
of these cars biggest assets so we're
going to take you along on a 30-mile
carefully planned trip half city and
half highway to test out which one gets
the best real-world fuel economy
now there really isn't a whole lot about
either of these cars to distinguish the
fact that they use diesel engines except
for the noise that they make at idle and
the badges that they wear on the outside
now General Motors wants this to feel
like a German car and funny enough it
sort of is because the engine that it
uses is actually borrowed from GM's
German subsidiary of course that's Opel
mind you it's a heavily modified version
to meet u.s. emission standards and the
2 liter turbo diesel gets 151 horsepower
and offers 264 foot-pounds of torque
although if you Jam the pedal all the
way to the floor you actually get access
to 280 foot-pounds for up to 10 seconds
via the overboost feature our test car
costs just about $29,000 which makes it
one of the most expensive cruises you
can buy you only get one transmission
option for that price a 6-speed slush
box and while Chevy swears up and down
that it's able to compete with the VW
gearbox options I'm a little bit
skeptical mind you these cars are all
about fuel economy and if the government
estimates have anything to say about it
that transmission isn't going to make an
awful lot of difference
why is that well this cars supposed to
get 27 miles per gallon in the city or a
whopping 46 on the highway of course
that's exactly what we're here to test
Luke's fully loaded Cruze diesel is
quite a bit more expensive than this
jetta TDI with the navigation and
premium package altogether this vehicle
cost twenty-seven thousand eight hundred
and fifty dollars and you don't even
have to spend that much just to get into
a diesel Jetta in fact you can just
spend twenty three thousand eight
hundred fifty dollars to get into a base
Jetta diesel I've also noticed that luke
has an easier time keeping up with
traffic in that cruise and that's
because that vehicle has more horsepower
and torque the Jetta TDI of 2-liter
turbocharged diesel engine makes 140
horsepower and 236 pounds feet of torque
in our vehicle that motor is paired to a
quick shifting dual clutch transmission
but you can save some money by going for
a man
transmission now when it comes to fuel
economy the Jetta TDI gets better fuel
economy in the city at 30 miles per
gallon but it does not come near the 46
miles per gallon that the Cruz gets on
the highway at least that's what the EPA
says it rates this vehicle for 42 miles
per gallon but let's see how it does
with some real-world driving numbers now
like I said earlier the Cruz is supposed
to get up to 46 miles per gallon on the
highway unfortunately over the course of
15 miles at an average speed of 63 miles
an hour I'm finding that it only got 39
on the other hand the Jetta is supposed
to get 42 miles per gallon on the
highway and we're seeing 47 now this is
a perfect time after we're coming off
the highway to point out that the Cruz
comes with certain safety features that
you can't get in the Jetta for example
blind spot monitoring and also rear
parking assist which helps because let's
be honest I suck at parking
but the Jetta is cheaper and more
stylish plus you've got a torque
converter automatic what year are we in
I'll give that one to Sammy but I'll
take the Cruze for seat quality and
comfort over the Jetta any day of the
week on that note why don't we see how
these cars do in the city Luke's right
the Jetta doesn't have the same safety
or convenience features as the cruise
and one thing I really wish I had in
here is the cruises infotainment system
Volkswagens MMI system is clunky old and
ugly and it just doesn't compare to
MyLink however I really appreciate the
driving dynamics of the Jetta it steers
well and that transmission is impossible
to beat however our specific vehicle has
a really weird braking problem the whole
car starts to shudder to a stop now I
don't know if it's because this is a
pressed vehicle and most press vehicles
have a pretty rough life but I bet a
brand new Jetta won't feel as rough as
this the urea treatment system in the
Cruze takes up a huge part of the trunk
and that's why the Jetta has a far
bigger cargo space now the Cruze has
better seats and the Jetta altogether
doesn't look that special in fact all of
the hard plastics in here are already
scuffing up in leaving marks and that
doesn't really give it a quality feel
you know Sammy is absolutely right the
six-speed automatic in this car just
doesn't stack up to modern dual clutch
gearboxes like the one that he gets to
play with in the Jetta I'm also noticing
that this is the much noisier of the two
both inside the cabin and just speaking
in terms of the exhaust note in general
chevrolet went to great lengths to
deaden the sound and they did a good job
but you can still hear it quite a bit
and one of the other things you can hear
is how the tires tend to squeal even in
moderate speed turns I chalk that up to
the fact that Chevy also uses
low-rolling-resistance tires and while
that's probably saving a little bit of
fuel it's also slightly disconcerting
because that combined with what boils
down to sort of a vague
steering feel means that cornering feels
a little bit imprecise and I'm just not
in love with the feeling you have going
through corners because you're not
really sure how much traction you have
don't get me wrong I don't mean to get
down on the crews completely it
certainly has advantages of its own for
example the engine has more torque and
in all cases that's going to make it
feel more powerful also the brake feel
is much better you get an instant
response when you touch the pedal and as
you progressively push you feel the car
slowing down which is just not true of
the Jettas brakes at least in this case
after our city driving loop the jetta
TDI returned 34 miles per gallon how
about you Luke well I got 31 miles per
gallon which means that this car
averaged 35 which is better than the EPA
and if I'm not mistaken you also beat
those averages yeah with 40 miles per
gallon that means no matter how you
drive these cars and where you drive
these cars you're going to get excellent
fuel economy in my mind that boils down
to one thing you can choose the Cruze
and pay a little bit more but you get
more safety tech on the other hand if
slightly higher fuel economy and a lower
price are more appealing
you're better off going with the Jetta
for more on this car comparison and
others like it visit Auto guide calm